How to Get Involved with Movement's Testnet
Announcements, Testnet
July 30, 2024
Movement Labs
Movement’s
public testnet
is NOW LIVE.
With the launch of our public testnet, developers and users have a live environment to use Movement’s next-gen L2. Movement offers far greater security through Move and uses the parallelized MoveVM, the first Move virtual machine L2 for Ethereum. Movement is integrated, allowing devs to choose the best modular pieces. Movement also uses Celestia for data availability, providing a high-throughput solution for posting transaction data off-chain while still settling to Ethereum.
Six of our launch partners have their apps deployed. Many more are coming. Yes, you can use Movement today. Here’s how.
The MoveDrop
The
MoveDrop
is an incentivized testnet program. It provides a way for the community to come together to build something: Parthenon (AKA Movement mainnet).
Anybody can join. Participants receive trophies, medals, resources, and ethos for actions. These are the foundation of MoveDrop participation and recognition.
The MoveDrop has
four
primary pieces.
MoveDrop homepage
1. The Battle of Olympus (for Devs)
Developers can build on the Movement testnet through our Battle of Olympus. This hackathon is for elite blockchain devs (and dev teams). More than 750 teams are already registered!
Teams are ranked on a master leaderboard, moving up or down based on progress. Devs can build in DeFi, gaming and entertainment, social and community tools, infrastructure and dev tools, and NFTs.
You’re still early! The battle has only just begun and it ends in September
Olympus homepage
Olympus registration
2. Building the Parthenon (for Everyone)
Building the Parthenon is an incentivized testnet program open to all. No matter your speciality, you can join this community-driven journey to mainnet. It starts TODAY, with public testnet.
Here’s how you can start participating ASAP:
Complete weekly guild quest lines on
Movement’s Galxe
Engage with partner ecosystem projects to support Movement
Join a Movement guild (best option)
Movement guilds provide specific tracks for you to follow based on your skills and interests. You’ll help build the Parthenon with fellow Movers. Our guilds:
Pathfinders: network explorers
Creators: creators + storytellers
Explorers: test features + provide feedback
Scholars: researchers + educators
Spartans: on-chain testooooors
Building the Parthenon
Join a Movement Guild
3. Gmove Campaign
You can win trophies for saying “gmove” on X. Yes, really!
4. Centurions
We’ll also be launching a program for committed participants. More TBA.
Developer Docs and Resources
Movement Documentation
Getting Started Building on Movement
Movement Learning Resources
Timeline
Movement Public Testnet Live:
today
Battle of Olympus:
now through September 17
Road to Parthenon:
now through mainnet
Wen Mainnet:
soon
Go Forth and Build
What are you waiting for? Whether you're a dev, creator, or community enthusiast, there's a place for you in the Movement. Every quest you complete boosts your standing.
We're pumped to build with you!
About Movement:
Movement Labs is the innovative force behind the Movement Network, an ecosystem of Modular Move-Based Blockchains that enables developers to build secure, performant, and interoperable blockchain applications, bridging the gap between Move and EVM ecosystems. We are developing the first Move Virtual Machine L2 for Ethereum, alongside open-source tooling and protocols to facilitate the adoption of the Move programming language across blockchain ecosystems. With Movement, developers can launch high-performance Move VM rollups with ease. We aim to revolutionize blockchain interoperability and advance Move-based technologies in the Web3 space.
Website
/
Twitter/X
/
Discord
/
Telegram